- [Instructor] To complete the course project,
we're going to add a text messaging feature
to our application, using Twilio.
Twilio is a great addition to any developer's toolbox
because it enables them to include messaging,
voice and video into their applications
with minimal effort.
Within Twilio, you'll find over 20 APIs
that unlock communications channels, such as text messaging,
WhatsApp, chat and programmable voice.
Using these channels, your applications can better engage
with their users.
For our purposes, we're going to focus on the SMS API
and its ability to send text messages.
We'll use this API to send a text,
based on the results of the sentiment analysis conducted
on the tweets we receive in our stream from Twitter.
Building an enterprise SMS capability
is out of reach for most developers and organizations.
In order to create this sort of capability,
it requires negotiation with large telecoms
and most businesses just don't meet the volume requirements
that can justify the investment.
When using Twilio, those concerns never cross a developer
or an organization's mind.
That's because Twilio has built the infrastructure
and networks for you.
They package up these messaging capabilities
into an easy to use API that's readily accessible.
Twilio is enterprise grade and it's used
by developers to send roughly 66 billion messages per year.
That's a lot of texts.
Let's hop over to the documentation,
just to take a closer look.
On the Twilio homepage,
you'll just navigate to docs and tools
and then go to API reference.
We're interested in the SMS API,
so I'll click on that section.
And then over here in the side bar, go to API overview.
This is going to show us how to construct a call
that makes a text message.
Now I just want to point out a few high-level things.
First, you'll notice the base URL.
The base URL versions by date.
So instead of having like V2 in here,
it's actually going to specify the date,
which indicates the version of the API.
If we scroll down, you will find the security scheme.
The Twilio API is protected using basic auth.
So we're going to have to provide credentials
with each request using basic auth
when we call the Twilio API.
A little bit further down in the documentation,
we get an example of a call that uses curl
to send a text message.
Now you'll notice we perform a post
and the URI is a little bit unique
in the fact that we specify our Twilio account SID
as a path variable in the request.
So, we'll need to get our account ID
and then inject it into the URI when we make our calls.
Now, in order to send the text message,
we have to specify three things,
the body which is the message we want to send
in the text and then a from number and a to number.
You'll notice they are data URL encoded,
so we're not sending json here.
This is a different mind type that we'll use.
And then finally, you just see they include the credentials
there with basic auth.
So it's pretty simple to send a text message
using Twilio's API.
And that really speaks to how APIs are great
at delivering capabilities and making them accessible.
The capabilities behind this SMS API alone
would require years from a team of senior engineers
and most organizations just don't have the time
to build that or the money to invest in the legal costs
to negotiate with telecoms for this sort of capability.
I'll show you how to use Twilio to avoid all those things,
so that you can quickly send text messages
from your Java applications.